my name is Cara um it's a smile she is a
three and a half year old yellow lap
from canine companions for independence
we live in Washington DC and like all
those verses see our team's been
graduated from Santa Rosa campus of CCI
about a year and a half ago as a deaf
person deafness is commonly invisible
many people really don't know unlike
somebody using a wheelchair or maybe a
blind person we just as a cane or a
guide dog oftentimes I can go about
unnoticed and people don't realize until
they talk to me or I ask them to repeat
themselves oh you're deaf and so this
was a big change suddenly it's a visible
indicator of being deaf or
hard-of-hearing and so it's actually
very nice because that invites people to
feel free to ask questions to express
interest what is your dog do it says
hearing dog I've never heard of that
can you explain and I'm always very very
happy to teach people to advocating
educate and that's really brought a lot
to my life as well unlike other kinds of
service dogs whose physical abilities
help their human partners the dog might
need to have enough strength to pull a
wheelchair for example or it might need
to be physically agile enough to pick
something up off the floor hearing dog
traditionally have been rescued from
shelters mixed breeds sometimes smaller
dogs so I think canine companions is
unique in that abuses Labradors go to
between birds and crosses of the two at
home I think it's where a hearing dog
tend to do the brunt of their work so at
home she alerts me to somebody arriving
I'm knocking in the door ringing the
doorbell actually calling my knee in
which is very nice however that doesn't
means that our sounds out in public are
excluded on the contrary I've been told
and I've noticed the more you develop a
working relationship with your dog the
more you'll notice and come to rely on
them to understand and perceive and
notice different things out in the
environment for example at home she
would let me know when somebody shows up
and knocks on the door or rings the
doorbell if somebody calls me I'm a
teacher some deaf people
have a videophone and I actually have
one of those and a terrific wherever I
am in the house in the kitchen cooking
working in the office she'll hear that
and she will learn me and bring me into
that sound on occasion which is getting
helpful she'll pick it up for me and
bring it to me so it's pretty nice out
in public I just get a lot of additional
information by watching her and many
people who have hearing dogs say that
they noticed over time just by looking
at their dog how their dogs had moved
how they concoct their year how they
turn how they might move forward or back
give them a lot of information about
somebody coming behind them about
attract backing up just this morning I
was sitting having breakfast with a
friend and this friend knows I'm deaf
and we've had a lot of conversations
about what I can't hear with my hearing
aids what I can and so for one moment I
said to my friend if your truck behind
me that's backing up
she said yeah how did you know that I
said I didn't but Maya told me I think
Maya would probably describe me as four
human equivalent and that is so nice
because in many ways were able to relate
to each other on the basis of watching
the world and taking it in but at the
same time we are able to let go and have
fun together I think she would describe
me at the perfection of because I've
worked very hard and put a lot of effort
into improving her ability to alert me
to many different sounds and many
different times with many different
stimuli around she would also probably
describe me as very much in love with
her very very dedicated to her health
and well-being and hopefully she would
also describe me as her best friend